welcome once again to the Friday beer
break brought to you by the beer market
live music Thursday through Saturday and
the rock and roll brunch on Sundays and
joined as always by Chris schreier from
the Toronto beer blog and you're really
excited about this I'm excited but a lot
of things I mean I love being on
location yes a great spot and and we're
drinking one of the most war at least
sought-after beers in canela if not
North America have you ever longed for
anything like that so where is this from
and what makes it so good this is from
Montreal from Judah sale they were
originally just a brew pub in the
plateau in Montreal but now they've also
opened a brewery that I think is
actually off the island this is their
aphrodisiac now I notice it's dark is
this a porter this is an imperial stout
and it's made with vanilla and chocolate
so those are tastes that are often in
beer anyway and in imperial stats but
they've added it to bring it out and I'm
pretty sure it's pretty sure its barrel
aged at some point as well there's some
Oh penis to their to thank but the key
with this beer is this is like a slow
simmer I don't know if you can see the
daylight streaming in behind us or not
this isn't normally a beer you drink at
eleven in the morning but we're gonna do
it anyway why it'll be our little secret
what kind of beer would you what kind of
time a day would you drink this to me is
the perfect dessert beer this is a
dessert absolutely like well let's have
a sip and you'll see what okay okay so
this is due to sell aphrodisiac
beautiful it smells pretty good
so I'm right and getting a little bit of
smokiness to that I mean dark malts you
get a char from the malts that adds a
level of smokiness I just got a ton of
chocolate tal of chocolate and vanilla
were almost burnt sugar which again that
smell that second sip once the pallets
clear there i'm getting it's it's almost
like that BNL from mm-hmm flying monkeys
exactly to like choco putting in a cup
there is fair trade cocoa in this and
and it's thick right yeah it's really
smooth and silky but it down I want to
keep drinking like this is another one I
mean this is on draft here which is
amazing it's one of the few places i
think you'll find it regularly on draft
it's just through the winter in the
summer they switch over to the Rosetta
viscous which is a hibiscus flavor and I
think saison or maybe belgian wit now
this is like a definite winter style
beer when I think it like Imperial
Porter's imperial stouts this is the
time to drink them although think about
this it's July long weekend you're at
the cottage campfire kids are in bed
maybe roasting a few little marshmallows
dipping them in the in the kahlua or in
the the Irish Cream sipping on this
scene think of a place that's really
perfect your own happy place these
mirrors no just have to be for cold
weather you can so you can orient any
time of these so why would that style of
beer do so well and come back
specifically well it's bloody cold there
isn't it yes is bit nipply out I'd be
nippy out if you go historically back
there would have been beer made it
probably would have been more well in
fret in Quebec could have been French
style would have been probably mainly
French burgers and historically our
beers were generally English like UK
style or German style those would have
been our main brewers in Ontario so they
would have making more kind of
traditional ales and stuff this style I
don't know I would be interesting I've
got some friends writing a history book
right now maybe they'd have more insight
into this but I don't believe that the
style really would have become remotely
prevalent until very modern times like
say the last 10 years historically this
would have been a beer that would have
been more European its European
and québécois breweries modern but going
back 20 30 years always generally tended
towards the more Belgian style beers
this isn't a Belgian style beer but it's
sort of what style is this like would
this be technically these are in oh this
is an american-style Imperial step but
imperial stouts were British they're
made in England to be shipped to to
Russia so but this style of Imperial
state would be a modern American style
Imperial Stout this isn't a British
style we're getting a lot of specific
names thrown into here quebecois
American Imperial British Russian it's
all connected this is like a World Trade
beer till you will that's exactly what
this this is the UN yo league of nations
such as South Africa and the Iraq
everywhere like such as if you're
looking for a reason to unite humanity
it's all inside of this glass this is on
top of right now at the beer market you
can come down and get it and by the way
of your market live music Thursday
through Saturday and the rock and roll
brunch on Sundays this would be a great
beer to have a brunch yes me it does
taste like it would go really good with
sausages or waffles with maple syrup I'm
not a fussy guy I'll drink and eat with
anything that didn't even make sense I
think I've had too much already